Nfiann-prerelease (#6502)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/core/pip-install.md

A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality &mdash; ensuring your system will be ready for the final release.

Using a prerelease of an adapter has many benefits such as granting you early access to new features and improvements ahead of the stable release. As well as compatibility testing, allowing you to test the adapter in your environment to catch integration issues early, ensuring your system will be ready for the final release. 

Note that using a prerelease version before the final, stable version means the version isn't fully optimized and can result in unexpected behavior. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain. Furthermore, the `--pre flag` may install compatible prerelease versions of other dependencies, which could introduce additional instability.

To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command (replace `dbt-adapter-name` with your adapter)

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

> ````

Reviewer: @nataliefiann I see an extra backtick here

> ````

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

For example, if you’re using Snowflake, you would use the command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-snowflake

> 

Reviewer: @nataliefiann This code does not have closing backticks

We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:

> 

Reviewer: @nataliefiann This code does not have closing backticks

```shell
dbt --version
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source .venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```
Note, this will also install any pre-releases of all dependencies.

#### Activate your virtual environment 

To install or use packages within your virtual environment:

- Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. 

For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments).

Select your operating system and run the following command to activate it:

<Expandable alt_header="Unix/macOS" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell
source .venv/bin/activate
which python
.venv/bin/python
  

>   ```

Reviewer: @nataliefiann The above backticks should not be indented - they should be at the level of the previous ones.

  2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source .venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Windows" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell
.venv\Scripts\activate
where python
.venv\Scripts\python
  ```

> 2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

Reviewer: @nataliefiann The above backticks should be at the same distance as the opening ones

```

Or, better yet, just install the package(s) you need!

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

### Installing prereleases

A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality &mdash; ensuring your system will be ready for the final release.

Using a prerelease of an adapter has many benefits such as granting you early access to new features and improvements ahead of the stable release. As well as compatibility testing, allowing you to test the adapter in your environment to catch integration issues early, ensuring your system will be ready for the final release. 

> Note that using a prerelease version before the final, stable version means the version isn't fully optimized and can result in unexpected behavior. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that using a prerelease version before the final, stable version means the version isn't fully optimized and can result in unexpected behavior. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain. Furthermore, the `--pre flag` may install compatible prerelease versions of other dependencies, which could introduce additional instability.
```

To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command (replace `dbt-adapter-name` with your adapter)

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
````

For example, if you’re using Snowflake, you would use the command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-snowflake

> ````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:

```shell
dbt --version
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```
Note, this will also install any pre-releases of all dependencies.

#### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters on different operating systems 

To install or use packages within your virtual environment:

- Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. 

> For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments)

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments) and [Create a Python Virtual Environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).
```

> For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments) and [Create a Python Virtual Environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments) and [Create a Python virtual environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).
```

Select your operating system and run the following command to activate it:

<Expandable alt_header="Unix/macOS" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell
source .venv/bin/activate
which python
.venv/bin/python
  
  ```
  2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source .venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Windows" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell
.venv\Scripts\activate
where python
.venv\Scripts\python
  ```
2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

```shell
py -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
.venv\Scripts\activate
dbt --version
```

</Expandable>

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7">

> ### Install prereleases

Reviewer 2: To align with other heading:

```suggestion
### Installing prereleases
```

> ### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters

Author: ```suggestion
### Install prereleases
```

> dbt-adapters are only compatible with dbt Core 1.8 and higher. If you're on dbt Core v1.7 or lower, follow these steps to upgrade to v1.8 or higher to install prereleases of dbt-adapters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`dbt-adapters` is only compatible with dbt Core 1.8 and higher. If you're on dbt Core v1.7 or lower, follow these steps to upgrade to v1.8 or higher to install prereleases of `dbt-adapters`.
```

```shell
python -m pip uninstall -y dbt-adapters

> python -m pip install --upgrade dbt-core dbt-common dbt-adapters

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing it would need the `--pre` flag as well:

```suggestion
python -m pip install --upgrade --pre dbt-core dbt-common dbt-adapters
```

```

Or, better yet, just install the package(s) you need!

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

> ### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters

Reviewer 2: We have a Python package named `dbt-adapters` that is a requirement for adapters like `dbt-snowflake`, etc. when used with `dbt-core` 1.8+. Since this section is focused on pre-releases of `dbt-core` and adapters like `dbt-snowflake`, etc, I suggest to change the heading to something like this instead:

```suggestion
### Installing prereleases
```

or

```suggestion
### Installing prereleases of dbt
```

or

```suggestion
### Installing prereleases of dbt and adapters
```

Reviewer 2: Whatever is chosen should also be used anywhere else the `### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters` header appears in this page. I noticed at least one other instance below.

> A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality.

Reviewer 3: nice intro! i think the first couple of paragraphs can be consolidated as they're saying basically saying the same thing

Reviewer 3: So something like: 

> A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality &mdash; ensuring your system will be ready for the final release.

> A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality.

Author: ```suggestion
A prerelease adapter is a version released before the final, stable version. It allows users to test new features, provide feedback, and get early access to upcoming functionality &mdash; ensuring your system will be ready for the final release.
```

> Using a prerelease of an adapter has many benefits such as granting you early access to new features and improvements ahead of the stable release. Innovation opportunities &mdash; leverage new features to improve your work and stay competitive. As well as compatibility testing, allowing you to test the adapter in your environment to catch integration issues early, ensuring your system will be ready for the final release. 

Reviewer 3: it doesn't seem like this belongs here?

> Innovation opportunities &mdash; leverage new features to improve your work and stay competitive.

> Using a prerelease of an adapter has many benefits such as granting you early access to new features and improvements ahead of the stable release. Innovation opportunities &mdash; leverage new features to improve your work and stay competitive. As well as compatibility testing, allowing you to test the adapter in your environment to catch integration issues early, ensuring your system will be ready for the final release. 

Author: ```suggestion
Using a prerelease of an adapter has many benefits such as granting you early access to new features and improvements ahead of the stable release. As well as compatibility testing, allowing you to test the adapter in your environment to catch integration issues early, ensuring your system will be ready for the final release. 
```

> Note that using a prerelease version before the final, stable version means the version isn't fully optimized and can result in unexpected behavior. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain.

Reviewer 2: The `--pre` flag will also install any compatible pre-releases of any other dependencies, which may be another source of unexpected behavior.

> Prereleases also have some drawbacks such as performance issues as they may not be fully optimized, potentially resulting in slower performance or inefficiency. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain.

Reviewer 3: trying to remove some of the negative language here
```suggestion
Note that using a prerelease version before the final, stable version means the version isn't fully optimized and can result in unexpected behavior. Additionally, frequent updates and patches during the prerelease phase may require extra time and effort to maintain.
```

> To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command (replace `dbt-adapter-name` with your adapter)
```

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
````

For example, if you’re using Snowflake, you would use the command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-snowflake
````

We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:

```shell

> dbt --version
> python3 -m venv venv
> source venv/bin/activate
> python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
> python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
> source venv/bin/activate
> dbt --version

Reviewer 2: Changing from `venv` to `.venv` to align with the other examples below.

```suggestion
dbt --version
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source .venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

```
Note, this will also install any pre-releases of all dependencies.

> #### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters on different operating systems 

Reviewer 3: is this the right header for this section?

> #### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters on different operating systems 

Author: ```suggestion
#### Activate your virtual environment 
```

To install or use packages within your virtual environment:

- Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. 

> For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments) and [Create a Python virtual environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).

Reviewer 3: the link below is returning a 'page not found':

> [Create a Python virtual environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

That link was a link to one of the other docs I'm creating. I'll remove it for now as there's an existing link in the PR.

Kind Regards
Natalie

> For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments) and [Create a Python virtual environment](/docs/core/create-a-python-virtual-environment).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to [Create and use virtual environments](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/#create-and-use-virtual-environments).
```

Select your operating system and run the following command to activate it:

<Expandable alt_header="Unix/macOS" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell
source .venv/bin/activate
which python

> venv/bin/python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.venv/bin/python
```

  
  ```
  2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source .venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

> </Expandable>

Reviewer 2: We don't have any pre-releases that are higher than the most recent release, so I can't test if these commands work as intended or not. But I don't see anything wrong with them. We need to wait a few months for another pre-release to test it out.

In the meantime, choosing a specific pre-release version from the [PyPI release history](https://pypi.org/project/dbt-core/#history) worked for me:

```python
python3 -m pip install "dbt-core==1.9.0rc2" "dbt-snowflake==1.9.0rc1"
```

<Expandable alt_header="Windows" >

1. Activate your virtual environment: 

```shell

> env\Scripts\activate
> where python
> env\Scripts\python
>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.venv\Scripts\activate
where python
.venv\Scripts\python
```

  ```
2. Install the prerelease using the following command:

```shell
py -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
.venv\Scripts\activate
dbt --version
```

> </Expandable>

Reviewer 2: I don't have a Windows system to test these commands, but nothing stands out to me as incorrect.

</VersionBlock>

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.7">

### Install prereleases of dbt-adapters

> dbt-adapters are only compatible with dbt Core 1.8+. If you are on dbt Core v1.7 or below, follow the steps to upgrade to v1.8+ to install prereleases of dbt-adapters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
dbt-adapters are only compatible with dbt Core 1.8 and higher. If you're on dbt Core v1.7 or lower, follow these steps to upgrade to v1.8 or higher to install prereleases of dbt-adapters.
```

```

Or, better yet, just install the package(s) you need!

> <VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

Reviewer 3: nice use of versionblocks!

### Install prereleases of dbt adapters

To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
````
We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). You can run the commands to activate and install your virtual environment. You’ll need to activate your virtual environment before you start installing or using packages within it. For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following command:

```shell
dbt --version
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

> python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adaptername

Reviewer 3: so its consistent with the above example
```suggestion
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
```

source venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

#### Install prereleases on different operating systems 

To install or use packages within your virtual environment:

> - Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. You can run the following commands to activate your virtual environment.

Reviewer 3: maybe we can consolidate the last two sentences

```suggestion
- Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. 

   Select your operating system and run the following commands to activate it:
```

> - Select your operating system to activate your virtual environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> <Expandable alt_header="Unix/macOS" >

Reviewer 3: 🔥

```shell
source .venv/bin/activate
which python
.venv/bin/python
```

These commands will install the prerelease:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip --version
pip 23.3.1 from .../.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (python 3.9)
```

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Windows" >

```shell
.venv\Scripts\activate
where python
.venv\Scripts\python
```
These commands will install the prerelease:

```shell
py -m pip install --upgrade pip
py -m pip --version
pip 23.3.1 from .venv\lib\site-packages (Python 3.9.4)
```

</Expandable>

> If you’re using a different operating system, refer to [Git issue on Instructions to create a python virtual environment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/discussions/2143) for more information.

Reviewer 3: i know i mentioned linking to the github issue but maybe it's more direct to link them to the [repo](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/tree/duckdb?tab=readme-ov-file#mach-speed-no-explanation-needed) which has the toggles? 

maybe that's more of a doug question to confirm?

Reviewer 2: Rather than link to a GitHub Discussion or repo, I think we should either:
1. exclude the instructions and exclude the links
1. explicitly include the instructions for other operating system shells

```

Or, better yet, just install the package(s) you need!

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.8">

### Install prereleases of dbt adapters

To install prerelease versions of dbt Core and your adapter, use this command:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
````

> We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). You can run the commands to activate and install your virtual environment. You’ll need to activate your virtual environment before you start installing or using packages within it. For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). You can run the commands to create your virtual environment, activate it, and install within it. You’ll need to activate your virtual environment before you start installing or using packages within it. For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:
```

Also: the first two sentences are duplicative, so would be nice to simplify if possible.

> We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). You can run the commands to create your virtual environment, activate it, and install within it. You’ll need to activate your virtual environment before you start installing or using packages within it. For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend you install prereleases in a [virtual Python environment](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/). For example, to install a prerelease in a `POSIX bash`/`zsh` virtual Python environment, use the following commands:
```

```shell
dbt --version
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
source venv/bin/activate
dbt --version
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Not, the command `python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name` will also install any pre-releases of all dependencies.
```

> python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name

Reviewer 2: This is the key part, and it looks good 👍 

```shell
python3 -m pip install --pre dbt-core dbt-adapter-name
```

Note: it will also install any pre-releases of **all** dependencies.

#### Install prereleases on different operating systems 

To install or use packages within your virtual environment:

- Activate the virtual environment to add its specific Python and `pip` executables to your shell’s PATH. This ensures you use the environment’s isolated setup. 

   Select your operating system and run the following commands to activate it:

<Expandable alt_header="Unix/macOS" >

```shell
source .venv/bin/activate
which python
.venv/bin/python
```

These commands will install the prerelease:

```shell
python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip --version

> pip 23.3.1 from .../.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (python 3.9)

Reviewer 2: The first two commands look like they will upgrade the install of `pip` and then verify the version. The last line is the output rather than a command itself.

Recommendation is to either cut this section entirely or to update it.

```

</Expandable>

<Expandable alt_header="Windows" >

```shell
.venv\Scripts\activate
where python
.venv\Scripts\python
```
These commands will install the prerelease:

```shell
py -m pip install --upgrade pip
py -m pip --version
pip 23.3.1 from .venv\lib\site-packages (Python 3.9.4)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Same as https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/6502/files#r1861140005
